>> Steve Kinney: So there's this thing
called CORS, and CORS is the first moment
that aspiring front end engineers
realize that this might not be for
them, which is they get some stuff
from a server, like their own server.
They're yeah, I got I got data file
server, this web programming is the best,
and then there's,
now I'm going to have it hit the Twitter
API which is on a different origin, right?
An origin is basically defined as,
it is the same protocol, so HTTP, HTTPS?
The same subdomain, and domain,
and port, so different ports, or
anything along those lines, if you
are talking to your own server, thumbs-up.
If you're talking to somebody
else's server, right,
they have to say they're okay, with this,
it's kinda like going into your house,
it's okay, to go into your house.
Going to other people's houses when you
haven't been invited is not very good,
right, and generally speaking,
frowned upon.
And the same is true with CORS, right,
cuz you could theoretically request
sensitive data with Cookies and
stuff along those lines, and
you could do some not nice things.
So the browser doesn't let you do them
unless they have cleared this, right?
But there's all sorts of things that
you can request from other servers,
who amongst us hasn't gotten the URL for
a dank meme and
dropped it into a message board?
Did I just date myself there?
Okay, so it's just me we can link
to images on remote servers.
We can go ahead cuz we're lazy just
go ahead to the jQuery website,
grab that CDN link and drop it into
the page, and we've got jQuery,
clearly this is not always the case,
right?
We were surprised when we couldn't hit
the Twitter API from our client side app,
because we were used to just going on
W3Schools, grabbing some markup, and
throwing it in our app, and
it just working half the time, right?
So this is new and different for
us, so images are fine,
right cuz there's no data in there for
us to read and work with,
it's an image it's a video,
all of those things kind of work.
So in fact we can theoretically and
we'll talk about how to do that get stuff
from other domains if they are what we're
gonna call an opaque kind of data, right?
But we can't see into them.
>> Mike: So just to be clear this concept
has always existed, opaque responses.
And one way you could see it is if
you got an image from a server that
didn't have CORS headers on this image,
you could not then take that image and
then write that to canvas and
have your program analyse this
thing that was shown to the user.
So it's almost like the users
are allowed to see it, but
your code is not allowed to see
what was shown to the user.
>> Steve Kinney: For safety reasons.
>> Mike: For safety reasons, and here is
to reason why, cookies so by default,
fetch aside, by default,
with AJAX and requesting images and
things like that, like cookies
are sent along with each request.
And so,
if you were logged into my site and
cookies are the means by which I
authenticate and authorise people,
now all I need to do is have an image of
your user profile, or something like that,
and I might be able to tell, are you
an admin user, or are you a regular user?
I could have some AJAX that
would be sending requests out,
to transfer funds from your
bank account to another one.
And the fact that you have a cookie for
that domain, and
that's the way that that
authentication works, that can happen.
Now those responses are opaque to us,
we can't know for
a fact whether it completed,
but we can certainly do it.
And that's why CORS headers,
it is important if you're a front end
developer to know what your doing here and
don't set them up the way this
example project is set up,
which is a wildcard course header,
it's extremely permissive, right?
The consequence of this for
a real app would be like I could
send a link to Steve and
trick him into clicking on it, and
he would order three tons of diapers to
be delivered to his house in two weeks.
So definitely important
to pay attention to and
learn more about it but
it is sort of been rethought and fetch and
they got a second chance to define what
are the defaults, what should we allow,
and now like have reason in this world,
and not only dangerous things.
>> Steve Kinney: Yep, it's a real problem
for us at SendGrid, too cuz we have
a product where they could upload
an HTML file that is their email, right?
An attack vector would be, hey, if we
didn't sanitize all that stuff they could
upload executable JavaScript, call up
support that has advanced permission.
Have that send AJAX requests with
the cookie information and stuff,
along those lines, right?
So it's a very real problem,
with XMLHttpRequest we were only
getting things that were not opaque.
So we never thought about opaque
things in terms of these Asynchronous
network request.
They always exist to this Mike said,
but now it's the first time
that we can actually fetch that,
one an unintentional pun.
So now the time we can get
those things as well, so
here's an example of how that
would work with an image.
>> Student: So for each fetch request
now do we have to set course headers?
>> Steve Kinney: If it's your own,
you do not,
if it's something you expect to be opaque,
you need to say that.
Which we'll take a look at in one second.
So, here I'm building a thing where
I'm going to go get Mike's head shot
from the Frontend Masters' website,
as you do, I call it Wednesday.
>> Mike: Everybody does.
>> Steve Kinney: Everyone does, who
amongst us was not doing that at lunch?
>> Mike: It's the retina headshot too.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
it's the retina one, I got it at 2x,
cuz I'm not sacrificing quality here.
So I'll go fetch this URL, and
then when I get the response, I'm for
some reason going to console log an image,
because I was not feeling eventful for
a thing that wasn't going to work anyway.
So you could see that I'm apparently
doing it from the dinosaur website, and
the FrontendMasters website is like,
excuse me,
you don't have the keys to this house,
please step outside.
You cannot fetch this image, because we
didn't set any of those, we didn't say,
hey, take it opaque, we don't have
the CORS permissions, so on and so forth.
But if I went to the Nodejs webpage,
I just put an image tag in there, and
I set the source attribute to the same
image, it would totally work.
So why can't I do this in a fetch?
I can, right, I just have to say
that the mode is no-cors, right?
And that will give me an opaque version,
right?
I couldn't request JSON like this,
along those lines but
things I will get a version
that I cannot see into, right?
We will say, that lost the slide in there.
Yeah, the comment's right there,
I'm just not looking, you can see when I
say console.log(resource.type),
it'll say opaque.
Which means I can put it into
an image tag, but I cannot read it or
do anything with it.
I can use it as if it was an image
with a source attribute, right?
If I were saying why can't I do that,
I can, but that's what I can do, cool.
And so for the most part,
in a lot of our usage of fetch,
we're gonna send a string as a URL, we can
send this object with some options in it,
we can also build a request ourself,
right?
So we can make a new request
object with a string, and
an object full of options, right?
You're like, why wouldn't I just do that
the way I was doing it before, noted.
We can then take that request, and
we can pass into the fetch, and
it will work exactly the same way, right?
So and this is the same example
again with my no-cors in there,
I can create the request, send it through,
I'll get the opaque response.
I put this slide back up because
I want you to meditate for
a second on the feeling you
have in your heart of why.
Why would I create a request object
that has the same things that I
would have passed into fetch?
I'm not gonna answer that question for
you just yet, I'm just gonna ask you to
think about it for a second,
there is this idea of a request object.
It's not just we pass an a string, and
we pass in an object full of options, but
when we do that, especially what
happens under the fetch hood,
is it makes one of these request objects,
and these request objects are a thing,
they are a thing that will show back up,
to kinda foreshadow how the story goes.
Show back up later in our time together,
to lend a helping hand.
But right now, it's that kind of,
the rule from storytelling don't feature
a gun on the like mantle if it's not
gonna get used to the end of the book.
And if you do it better get
used by the end of the book.
This is our like foreshadowing for
a friend that will return,
when we're hanging out with pit of
sharks of sharks that really just makes
a whole bunch of movie metaphors together.
Is after lunch, it's what you gotta do.
>> Student2: At least
the sharks aren't jumping.
>> Steve Kinney: What's that?
>> Student2: So
at least the sharks aren't jumping.
>> Steve Kinney: At least the sharks
aren't jumping cuz jumping
sharks are dangerous and
they I got it [LAUGH] walked into it?
Cool so here we can also create headers
if we wanted to like set contact link,
we can like append different things
to the headers in our request
when we get a response object,
we can read headers.
So there are things that we might
want to do with this object,
if this hurts your feelings,
you can also pass it in as an object and
it will kind of create the headers for
you the same way.
So we've talked a lot
about making requests, and
which raises the question of
what about responses, right?
Cuz ideally the request are only
a means to the end we're only
making the requests cuz we
want the response, right?
So we've kind of repeated repeatedly is
that it works with more than JSON XML and
we do again need to talk about
what we're dealing with.
In this case we'll take JSON,
we have a bunch of other options, right?
We saw blob, JSON is like
please parse it as JSON, right?
Text is, it's text, form data is
kind of cool, form data works for
both requests and responses,
let's say you have a form on your page.
You can actually say new form data and
give it the DOM node that has the form and
it will get you all the data and
you can send it along to the server.
If you got back to send anything back
to the server you could theoretically
pass it back into data that you could use.
All right, quick word and this is again
something that will appear later,
is for a number of reasons, you can
only read the data out of a request or
response once, right?
After that it's okay I don't really
need to hold on to the same they've done
the thing with it,
I can let all this information go.
Which most of the time is exactly what
we want, some of the times you're like,
hey actually I read it,
I'm gonna need to do something else or
I think I'm gonna need to do
something else, we can clone it.
We'll talk a little more about this later,
but
first what we're gonna do is
we're going implement some fetch.